website/content/docs/upgrading/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading
sidebar_title: Upgrading
description: |-
  Waypoint is designed to be flexible and resilient when upgrading from one version to the next. We've carefully thought out an upgrade process so you can predict what will be involved when upgrading Waypoint.
---

# Upgrading Waypoint

~> **Note:** `waypoint install` and `waypoint server install` do not support an
upgrade. A `waypoint upgrade` command is under consideration for Waypoint 0.2.
One way to use the latest server is to [remove the existing
server](/docs/troubleshooting#remove-the-waypoint-server) and then reinstall
with `waypoint install`. Consider backing up `data.db` with `docker cp waypoint-server:/data/data.db ./data.db`, `kubectl cp waypoint-server-0:/data/data.db ./data.db` or similar.

Waypoint is designed to be flexible and resilient when upgrading from
one version to the next. We've carefully thought out an upgrade process
so you can predict what will be involved when upgrading Waypoint.

Waypoint is composed of many components which each have their own upgrade
considerations:

- **Client** (such as the CLI or UI) - Users of Waypoint are not expected
  to exactly match the Waypoint server version. The Waypoint upgrade process
  and compatibility promise allows for clients with differing versions from
  a Waypoint server.

- **Entrypoint** - The [entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint) is built and run
  directly on the deployment artifact. Users of Waypoint cannot be expected
  to rebuild and redeploy all applications. The Waypoint upgrade process
  and compatibility promise is designed so that entrypoints retain compatibility
  as long as possible.

- **Server** - The server component of Waypoint must remain compatible
  with all actively used clients and entrypoints. The Waypoint upgrade process
  is designed for you to know when and how to safely upgrade the server.

Please see our [compatibility promise](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
for details on how to determine compatbility. This page will focus on
how to upgrade components in both compatible and incompatible scenarios.

## Standard Upgrade

A standard upgrade is one where the [protocol version](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
remains compatible for all components from one upgrade to another. In other
words, this is an upgrade with no backwards incompatibilities.

Unless otherwise noted by the release notes, you can upgrade the server,
client, and entrypoints in any order for a standard, backwards compatible upgrade.

### Server Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Shut down the previous server version A.

3. Start the new server version B.

-> **Note:** There is no way today to avoid a small amount of downtime
when upgrading from version A to version B. In practice this should be
okay since all components continue to gracefully work while the server
is down, and the downtime should be short. We plan on improving this
in the future.

### Client Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Replace the client with the new version.

### Entrypoint Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Upgrade the client first. The client generally embeds the new entrypoint.
   If you're installing the entrypoint from an external source this step can
   be skipped.

3. Rebuild and redeploy your application with the new entrypoint.

## Backwards Incompatible Upgrade

A backwards incompatible upgrade is one where the
[protocol version](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
becomes incompatible from one version to another.

1. For backwards incompatible upgrades, you must first upgrade the
   server to the version that will remain compatible with both the old
   and new protocol version you're attempting to upgrade to.

2. Upgrade incompatible clients next by following the standard
   [client upgrade process](#client-upgrade) but ensure the version being
   upgraded to is compatible with the server version.

3. Upgrade incompatible entrypoints by following the standard
   [entrypoint upgrade process](#entrypoint-upgrade) and ensuring the
   entrypoints being used are compatible with the server version.

4. _Optional:_ Upgrade to the next version of the server which was
   incompatible with your prior set of components. This often better prepares
   you for future changes. This step was impossible at step (1) since either
   clients or entrypoints were incompatible prior to steps (2) and (3).

## Future Upgrade Improvements

We have plans in the future to introduce tooling to make it much easier to
confidently upgrade your Waypoint installations. Some of our roadmap plans
include:

- Built-in tooling to list all protocol versions currently in use.

- Built-in tooling to propose a step-by-step upgrade guide for a version
  that takes into account target and current protocol versions. This will let
  you know what needs upgrading and what doesn't.

- An `upgrade` subcommand to help upgrade server installations that were
  setup with `waypoint install`.

Commit message:

add note to upgrade for k8s pull policy

website/content/docs/upgrading/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading
sidebar_title: Upgrading
description: |-
  Waypoint is designed to be flexible and resilient when upgrading from one version to the next. We've carefully thought out an upgrade process so you can predict what will be involved when upgrading Waypoint.
---

# Upgrading Waypoint

~> **Note:** `waypoint install` and `waypoint server install` do not support an
upgrade. A `waypoint upgrade` command is under consideration for Waypoint 0.2.
One way to use the latest server is to [remove the existing
server](/docs/troubleshooting#remove-the-waypoint-server) and then reinstall
with `waypoint install`. Consider backing up `data.db` with `docker cp waypoint-server:/data/data.db ./data.db`, `kubectl cp waypoint-server-0:/data/data.db ./data.db` or similar.

~> **Note:** Upgrading on a k8s cluster requires using the flag
`-k8s-pull-policy=Always` when rerunning `waypoint install`. There is a known
issue that will be resolved in 0.2.1.

Waypoint is designed to be flexible and resilient when upgrading from
one version to the next. We've carefully thought out an upgrade process
so you can predict what will be involved when upgrading Waypoint.

Waypoint is composed of many components which each have their own upgrade
considerations:

- **Client** (such as the CLI or UI) - Users of Waypoint are not expected
  to exactly match the Waypoint server version. The Waypoint upgrade process
  and compatibility promise allows for clients with differing versions from
  a Waypoint server.

- **Entrypoint** - The [entrypoint](/docs/entrypoint) is built and run
  directly on the deployment artifact. Users of Waypoint cannot be expected
  to rebuild and redeploy all applications. The Waypoint upgrade process
  and compatibility promise is designed so that entrypoints retain compatibility
  as long as possible.

- **Server** - The server component of Waypoint must remain compatible
  with all actively used clients and entrypoints. The Waypoint upgrade process
  is designed for you to know when and how to safely upgrade the server.

Please see our [compatibility promise](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
for details on how to determine compatbility. This page will focus on
how to upgrade components in both compatible and incompatible scenarios.

## Standard Upgrade

A standard upgrade is one where the [protocol version](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
remains compatible for all components from one upgrade to another. In other
words, this is an upgrade with no backwards incompatibilities.

Unless otherwise noted by the release notes, you can upgrade the server,
client, and entrypoints in any order for a standard, backwards compatible upgrade.

### Server Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Shut down the previous server version A.

3. Start the new server version B.

-> **Note:** There is no way today to avoid a small amount of downtime
when upgrading from version A to version B. In practice this should be
okay since all components continue to gracefully work while the server
is down, and the downtime should be short. We plan on improving this
in the future.

### Client Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Replace the client with the new version.

### Entrypoint Upgrade

1. Check any upgrade notes for the version you're upgrading to and verify
   there are no issues that will affect your upgrade.

2. Upgrade the client first. The client generally embeds the new entrypoint.
   If you're installing the entrypoint from an external source this step can
   be skipped.

3. Rebuild and redeploy your application with the new entrypoint.

## Backwards Incompatible Upgrade

A backwards incompatible upgrade is one where the
[protocol version](/docs/upgrading/compatibility)
becomes incompatible from one version to another.

1. For backwards incompatible upgrades, you must first upgrade the
   server to the version that will remain compatible with both the old
   and new protocol version you're attempting to upgrade to.

2. Upgrade incompatible clients next by following the standard
   [client upgrade process](#client-upgrade) but ensure the version being
   upgraded to is compatible with the server version.

3. Upgrade incompatible entrypoints by following the standard
   [entrypoint upgrade process](#entrypoint-upgrade) and ensuring the
   entrypoints being used are compatible with the server version.

4. _Optional:_ Upgrade to the next version of the server which was
   incompatible with your prior set of components. This often better prepares
   you for future changes. This step was impossible at step (1) since either
   clients or entrypoints were incompatible prior to steps (2) and (3).

## Future Upgrade Improvements

We have plans in the future to introduce tooling to make it much easier to
confidently upgrade your Waypoint installations. Some of our roadmap plans
include:

- Built-in tooling to list all protocol versions currently in use.

- Built-in tooling to propose a step-by-step upgrade guide for a version
  that takes into account target and current protocol versions. This will let
  you know what needs upgrading and what doesn't.

- An `upgrade` subcommand to help upgrade server installations that were
  setup with `waypoint install`.
